bytesize transcript taxprofiler (#1548)
nf-core/nf-co.re: markdown/events/2023/bytesize_nf-core-taxprofiler.md

<details markdown="1"><summary>Video transcription</summary>
**Note: The content has been edited for reader-friendliness**

[0:01](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1EQtidJiUY&t=1)
(host) Hello, everyone, and welcome to the first bytesize talk of 2023, and I'm very, very happy to have Sofia Stamouli present today a new pipeline called nf-core/taxprofiler, which is soon to be released, I've heard. Off to you, Sofia.

[0:23](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1EQtidJiUY&t=23)
Hello, everyone. I'm going to talk about nf-core/taxprofiler, which is using the GitHub description "a bioinformatics best practice analysis pipeline for taxonomic classification and profiling of shotgun metagenomic data". In the talk today, I will briefly introduce what is shotgun metagenomics and how the development of tax-profiler started. I will give an overview of the nf-core/taxprofiler pipeline and how you can use and run the pipeline, as well as our upcoming development plans.

[1:07](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1EQtidJiUY&t=67)

> To start with, what is shotgun metagenomics sequencing? I borrowed the description from Kim's paper from 2017 that describes shotgun metagenomic sequencing as the untargeted sequencing of all microbial genomes present in a sample. It allows for the determination of the taxonomic diversity in a sample. We may be looking at bacteria, viruses, fungi, archaea, or a combination of those, that are present in a sample. The development started in February 2022 by James Fellows Yates and Maurice Beber. We at Karolinska Institutet joined during the online hackathon in March.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start with, what is shotgun metagenomics sequencing? I borrowed the description from Quince's paper from 2017 that describes shotgun metagenomic sequencing as the untargeted sequencing of all microbial genomes present in a sample. It allows for the determination of the taxonomic diversity in a sample. We may be looking at bacteria, viruses, fungi, archaea, or a combination of those, that are present in a sample. The development started in February 2022 by James Fellows Yates and Moritz Beber. We at Karolinska Institute joined during the online hackathon in March.
```
